# Dear Students,

If you're new to code and want to learn how to craft your own corner of the web, then netnet.studio is for you! You can start by going straight to [netnet.studio](https://netnet.studio) and introducing yourself to netnet, you don't really need to read any of the stuff below (you'll learn it all on netnet.studio as you go). That said, if you're looking for a **User Guide** style manual, you'll find that here.

## coding in netnet

netnet.studio is an interactive learning platform (see the Learning Guide section below) where you learn not only by reading docs or watching videos but by making. It's also designed to act as a web-coding sketchbook, if you have an idea, the goal is to get you into a live editor with minimal friction so you can capture it in code before it’s lost. You can let netnet know you want to code as soon as it loads, or jump straight to a blank sketch by navigating to [netnet.studio/sketch](https://netnet.studio/sketch)

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline width="720"
  src="../images/sketching.mp4"
  poster="../images/sketching.jpg">
</video>

The code editor is intentionally simple, but has unique features designed specifically for creative folks learning to code for the first time. As shown in the video above, it provides familiar tools like syntax highlighting, line numbers, and auto-complete, along with a few extras designed to support learning. For instance, double-clicking any piece of code brings up an explanation and relevant documentation. If netnet detects a possible issue, it marks the line with an orange (warning) or red (error) dot that you can click to read more. There are a number of other widgets which netnet opens (or suggests) for you to use when it's relevant as it did with the Color Widget in the video above.

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline width="720"
  src="../images/saving-sketch.mp4"
  poster="../images/saving-sketch.jpg">
</video>

To save a **sketch**, press <b>CTRL+S</b> (or <b>CMD+S</b> on Mac). netnet will prompt you to either download your sketch (as an HTML file) or share it (as a netnet URL). When you generate a share link, the code is embedded directly in the URL itself (that’s why it’s so long). This approach keeps your work completely private, since nothing is stored on our servers, and lets you create and share instantly without an account. However, if you lose that link, you lose your code. Like a drawing on a scrap of paper, sketches aren’t meant to last forever. If you want to keep one permanently, save the share URL somewhere safe or download the HTML file (or create a **project**, more on that below).

## The Menu

You can open the menu at anytime by clicking on netnet's face...

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline width="720"
  src="../images/netnet-menu.mp4"
  poster="../images/netnet-menu.jpg">
</video>

### Saying "Hi"

When you first visit netnet.studio you'll be greeted by netnet, a conversation **passage** will appear above netnet's face with options for your responses. These conversation passages appear throughout the experience, it's netnet's primary mode for explaining things and presenting you with options. Remember, netnet is *classical AI*, meaning every word netnet says was written by a human (one of us!) not generated by a large language model. We've chosen it's words carefully, in order to be as clear and concise as possible and have designed netnet to communicate only what's absolutely necessary when it's necessary. So, if netnet says something, it's always worth taking a second to read what it has to say.

### The Coding Menu

The **Coding Menu** is where you interact with netnet around your code. From here, you can launch different *passages*, guided conversations with netnet for tasks like creating, saving, or publishing your work. You can also adjust *settings* that control the editor’s look and behavior, such as theme, layout, or motion preferences. In addition, the menu lets you open various *widgets*, pop-up windows that provide focused tools or information, like **Share Sketch**, **Code Review**, or **Project Files**.

Visit the [coding docs](coding.md) to learn more about this menu and how to create **sketches** and **projects**.

### The Search

On the surface netnet appears fairly simple, but as you start exploring the studio you'll come across different features, lessons and widgets. It can be hard to remember where exactly you came across a specific document or widget, which is why netnet also has a universal search bar. The search results color code different result types and lists where to find them. Clicking on a result will open up that widget, document, lesson, etc.

### The Learning Guide

netnet’s **Learning Guide** is packed with educational content that starts from the basics and gradually builds toward more complex lessons and examples. Because everyone learns differently, the Learning Guide offers several *learning modes*, some designed for students who prefer structured, step-by-step instruction, and others for those who learn best through exploration and experimentation. Some topics appear across multiple modes by design, allowing learners to approach the same concept in different ways. You can follow the Learning Guide from start to finish for a traditional progression, or explore it non-linearly based on your own interests and needs.

Visit the [learning docs](learning.md) to read more about this widget and it's various "learning modes" and educational resources.
